---
layout: blog
categories: blog gear
title: From Sennheiser to Grado
---

For about 10 years I've been using Sennheiser HD 650's as my main
headphones at work and Grado sr60s on my desk at home.  The sr60s are
in my opinion the best headphone one can buy for under $100 and way
better than some headphones at 10x the price.  The problem with the
60s is that they are horribly uncomfortable for long listening. 

My sr60s finally died and my wife bought me a pair of sr225s for
Christmas last year.  (My wife buys me stereo gear - did I marry well
or what?)  I was hesitant to buy them myself due to the discomfort of
the sr60s.  That concern turned out to be misplaced and the sound of
the sr225s is just fantastic.  To be honest, I like them better than
my Sennheisers - more forward, crisp sound where the 650's tend to be
laid back in my opinion. 

My 650's finally died from abuse at work.  I'm hard on headphones
there just by the nature of how I work and the amount of moving around
I need to do.  They're not dead completely, but one of the grills is
falling off and I find that annoying.  So, I went on a hunt for new
cans. 

After several months of debate, I finally decided to trust my instinct
and go with high-end Grado's.  Specifically, RS2i reference
headphones.  They were not cheap, but still about $200 less than the
650s were.  I am now officially a Grado guy.  These are perfect cans
for me.  They fit well and feel good, and the sound is exactly what I
want. The sound is crisp and fast - just like I prefer.  They are more
forward than the Sennheisers, but just slightly more refined than the
220s.  Worth every penny. My only regret is not stepping up to the
RS1i, but I can live with that. 

If you're in the market for a set of reference headphones, do check
out the RS2i.  Always use your ears. 
