---
layout: blog
categories: blog gear
title: Tupperware Technology
---
Many of my friends know that I finally broke down and bought a
turntable.  I didn't get the very nicest model out there, but I did
get a solid model that was well-reviewed - the Rega RP-1.  I have zero
complaints with the turntable other than the outputs having wired in
interconnects.  That doesn't bug me as I'm not that into cables.  Zero
noise, soild, simple device.

I have to admit the ritual of playing an album is kind of relaxing.
Spin up the turntable, brush of the album, drop the needle, and
listen. No remote, no skipping tracks, just listen.  I like that.
However, there is nothing more accurate or musically satisfying in the
process.  It is psychologically a fun, relaxing process most
definitely.  However, there is nothing more natural or otherwise more
satisfying about the music itself.

My album purchases thus far have been new vinyl, all audiophile
quality.  I have huge issues with the albums purchased thus far. New
vinyl should not have gashes in it.  My brand new Sketches of Spain
has a quarter inch gash in it that was there the first time I played
it.  Just bougth Earth Wind &amp; Fire's *Grattitude* this afternoon -
once again high quality audiophile pressing.  After three cleanings I
finally got the chunks of gunk off of the first LP.  Still working on
the second.  When I say cunks of gunk, I mean things that cause the
record to skip badly that are qiuite visible and stuck to the vinyl.
Again, right out of the sleeve the first time played.  Wow.  I don't
care how good your turntable is - if there are chunks of solidified
goo on the surface of your album, playback is going to suck.  I have 6
other albums that play a bit better than these, but all were flawed
when I opened them.  Etching groovs on Tupperware is simply not an
improved process over what it was 20 years ago.
